## Top Level Functions and Constants
These functions come from the sub-modules, but are exported at the top-level `densitty` module as the typical-case API, to provide nice output with a minimum of required code.
Many of the functions will do terminal size detection, and color capability detection.

### `histplot2d()`
Generates a Plot object by binning given data points. Accepts number of bins / bin edges, optional bin sizes, etc.
### `densityplot2d()`
Generates a Plot object by smoothing given data points. Similar arguments to `histplot2d()`.
### `grid_heatmap()`
Generates a Plot object with cells colored by the provided values, with explicit column and row labels for the cells.
### `plot()`
Generates a Plot object with cells colored by the provided values, using terminal color detection to pick the appropriate RGB/256-color/16-color/ASCII colormap. Used by the above functions.
### Colormaps
For use with the above functions, colormap dictionaries mapping color support level to specific colormaps
#### `GRAYSCALE`
Ramp from black to white.
#### `RAINBOW`
Red->Orange->Yellow->Green->Blue->Violet
#### `REV_RAINBOW`
Reversed rainbow: Violet->Blue->Green->Yellow->Orange->Red
#### `FADE_IN`
Similar to `REV_RAINBOW`, but fading in from black at the low end.

### `Axis`
Class specifying (X or Y) axis parameters.
### `Plot`
Fundamental class used for producing 2-D plots.
### `make_colorbar()`
Given a `Plot` object, produce another `Plot` object that is a color scale, either horizontal or vertical.
### `histogram2d()`
Bin the provided points into a 2-D array (list of lists) based on the binning parameters.
### `smooth2d()`
Smooth the provided points into a 2-D array (list of lists) using the provided smoothing kernel.

## Sub-Modules

### Plot class (`plotting.py`)
This class (also included at the top level of the module) does the work of plotting the 2-D data. You can instantiate it directly  through the class constructor, or via a helper function (e.g. `histplot2d()`).
The data to be plotted must be provided. Rendering options (color map, characters to use, the data range, the Axes) may be optionally specified.  You will typically want to use the `.show()` method to print to the screen, but the `as_strings()` method may be useful if you need to further modify the output.

### Axis class (`axis.py`)
Also included at the top level. Providing an Axis object for your X and Y axes lets you specify the range of each axis, whether tick marks and labels should correspond to the bins themselves or the bin edges, and some axis rendering details. You may provide a set of labels to be used on the axis, or have them be autogenerated for you.

### Colors
#### Truecolor / RGB/ 24-bit color
Several 24-bit color maps are provided in `truecolor.py`, for use with terminals that support it. If you want to specify your own 24-bit color map, the included `colormap24b()` function is a straightforward way to interpolate between provided colors to produce a color map. Interpolation is done in L*a*b* color space to preserve brightness and avoid the "muddy" colors seen when interpolating directly in RGB.

#### 256-color / 16-color
Non-truecolor "ANSI" color maps are provided in `ansi.py`, for both 256-color-capable terminals as well as those with only 16-color minimal color support.

#### ASCII-art
For terminals that don't support colors, or for that old-school look, `ascii_art.py` has some "color maps" using just character density.

### Binning
`binning.py` provides utility functions to bin a list of (X,Y) values into a dataset suitable for plotting with the `Plot` class.
`histogram2d()` is similar to Matplotlib's histogram2d: you can specify the number of bins, or the bin edges. Additionally/alternatively, you can specify the bin size.

### Smoothing
`smoothing.py` provide utility functions to smooth a list of (X,Y) values, using a provided smoothing function, into a dataset suitable for plotting with the `Plot` class.
The file includes Gaussian and Triangular smoothing kernels.

### Terminal Capability Detection
`detect.py` has utility routines to try to detect the current terminal's capabilities. These routines are leveraged in several helper functions:
- `pick_colormap()` will pick between supplied colormaps based on the terminal's capabilities
- `plot()` is a wrapper for the `Plot` class constructor that uses `pick_colormap()` to pick the appropriate colormap.
- `histplot2d()` is a wrapper for `binning.histogram2d()` together with a call to `plot()`
- `densityplot2d()` is a wrapper for `smoothing.smooth2d()` together with a call to `plot()`
- `grid_heatmap()` constructs labeled axes and calls `plot()`
- The color maps used by these  helper functions are actually dicts mapping the level of color support to the optimal color map. Some of these dicts are provided in `detect.py` and at the top level, for ease of use.
The helpers provide a simple mechanism to try to use the nicest colors supported by the current terminal.
